FTP REPLIES

A reply is defined to contain the 3-digit code, followed by Space.
Multiline replies have a "-" instead of space in the first line and a equal last line
(qual code) with space.

Each digit has a special significance:
-The first digit denotes whether the response is good, bad or incomplete.
-A user-process that wants to know approximately what kind of error
occurred (e.g. file system error, command syntax error) may
examine the second digit

There are five values for the first digit of the reply code:

1yz   Positive Preliminary reply

   The requested action is being initiated; expect another
   reply before proceeding with a new command.  (The
   user-process sending another command before the
   completion reply would be in violation of protocol; but
   server-FTP processes should queue any commands that
   arrive while a preceding command is in progress.)  This
   type of reply can be used to indicate that the command
   was accepted and the user-process may now pay attention
   to the data connections, for implementations where
   simultaneous monitoring is difficult.  The server-FTP
   process may send at most, one 1yz reply per command.

2yz   Positive Completion reply => ESPERAR resposta[0]='2'

   The requested action has been successfully completed.  A
   new request may be initiated.

3yz   Positive Intermediate reply

   The command has been accepted, but the requested action
   is being held in abeyance, pending receipt of further
   information.  The user should send another command
   specifying this information.  This reply is used in
   command sequence groups.

4yz   Transient Negative Completion reply

   The command was not accepted and the requested action did
   not take place, but the error condition is temporary and
   the action may be requested again.  The user should
   return to the beginning of the command sequence, if any.
   It is difficult to assign a meaning to "transient",
   particularly when two distinct sites (Server- and
   User-processes) have to agree on the interpretation.
   Each reply in the 4yz category might have a slightly
   different time value, but the intent is that the
   user-process is encouraged to try again.  A rule of thumb
   in determining if a reply fits into the 4yz or the 5yz
   (Permanent Negative) category is that replies are 4yz if
   the commands can be repeated without any change in
   command form or in properties of the User or Server
   (e.g., the command is spelled the same with the same
   arguments used; the user does not change his file access
   or user name; the server does not put up a new
   implementation.)

5yz   Permanent Negative Completion reply

   The command was not accepted and the requested action did
   not take place.  The User-process is discouraged from
   repeating the exact request (in the same sequence).  Even
   some "permanent" error conditions can be corrected, so
   the human user may want to direct his User-process to
   reinitiate the command sequence by direct action at some
   point in the future (e.g., after the spelling has been
   changed, or the user has altered his directory status.)
   
   
   
   
   
